## README for getting and cleaning data Week 4 project.

Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project repo contains all the useful scripts to download the [dataset](https://github.com/nrjptl/Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project/tree/master/UCI%20HAR%20Dataset "link to dataset") and make it tidy. It contains the codebook as well. 
All the scripts, codebook and data set is available [HERE](https://github.com/nrjptl/Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project "Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project repo")

## All the scripts and their uses are as below:
=============================================================
* [run_analysis.R](https://github.com/nrjptl/Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project/blob/master/run_analysis.R "link to run_analysis.R")
* [GetPackagesAndDataset.R](https://github.com/nrjptl/Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project/blob/master/GetPackagesAndDataset.R "link to GetPackagesAndDataset.R")
* [MergingTrainingAndTest.R](https://github.com/nrjptl/Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project/blob/master/MergingTrainingAndTest.R "link to MergingTrainingAndTest.R")
* [MergeFiles.R](https://github.com/nrjptl/Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project/blob/master/MergeFiles.R "link to MergeFiles.R")
* [MeanAndSdValues.R](https://github.com/nrjptl/Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project/blob/master/MeanAndSdValues.R "link to MeanAndSdValues.R")
* [DescriptiveActivities.R](https://github.com/nrjptl/Getting-And-Cleaning-Data-Project/blob/master/DescriptiveActivities.R "link to DescriptiveActivities.R")


## The descrption for each script is as below:
=============================================================
##### 1. run_analysis.R
- It is the main script which stores all the required data. run_analysis.R sources other scripts,
execute their code and make a tidy data set.
- It doesn't take any arguments.
- write mean data into meanData.txt file

##### 2. GetPackagesAndDataset.R
- This script check whether required packages are installed or not.
If not it installs them.
- Download the data set if it is not downloaded previously.

##### 3. MergingTrainingAndTest.R
- Merges the training and test data set with the help of MergeFiles.R script.
- This script performs the 1st task of the assignment.

##### 4. MergeFiles.R
- MergeFiles takes two arguments as file path(path1,path2) and merges both the files
row wise(using rbind).
- Returns the merged data table.

##### 5. MeanAndSdValues.R 
- This script extract the mean() and std() values from the merged data set.
- Stores the feature name and feature num vector in global variable 'featGlobal'.
- Takes no argument and returns data set with only mean() and std() values.

##### 6. DescriptiveActivities.R
- Read a file and get Activity names and activity numbers.
- This script performs the 3rd task of the assignment. 


## How the scripts are connected?
=============================================================
- run_analysis.R script calls GetPackagesAndDataset.R to install reuired packages and downloading the dataset.
- run_analysis.R script calls MergingTrainingAndTest.R to merge the train and test values. Here MergeFiles.R helps
to get the work done by binding data row wise.
- run_analysis.R script calls MeanAndSdValues.R to extract the mean and std values only.
- DescriptiveActivities.R read the file and get activity name and activity num.
- All remaining tasks like reshaping the data, finding the mean value of the data set is done by run_analysis.R only.
- meanData.txt is generated by run_analysis.R. meanData.txt contains the mean value for the each variable and each activity.

#### Notes:
+ Final data set is converted into **long narrow format** for easy readability. Feature names are shown in the row values so that they can be easily interpreted.
+ Only mean() and std() values are considered. **meanfreq() is not considered** for calculations.